An attempt to create step-by-step howto (#146)
AbsaOSS/k8gb: README.md

The rest of parameters are usually staying untouched unless you want to do something special e.g. to use images from private registry

* Export Infoblox related information in the shell. Instead of $ variables use the actual versions
```sh
export INFOBLOX_GRID_HOST=$GRID_HOST
export INFOBLOX_WAPI_PORT=$WAPI_PORT
export INFOBLOX_WAPI_VERSION=$WAPI_VERSION
export EXTERNAL_DNS_INFOBLOX_WAPI_USERNAME=$WAPI_USERNAME
export EXTERNAL_DNS_INFOBLOX_WAPI_PASSWORD=$WAPI_PASSWORD
```

* Precreate Infoblox secret which is used by k8gb to configure edgeDNS by running
```sh
k create ns k8gb
make infoblox-secret
```

* Let's deploy k8gb to first cluster. Most of the helper operational commands are abstarcted by GNU `make`. If you want to look under the hood please check the `Makefile` but in general standard kubernes/helm commands are in action. Point deployment mechanism to your custom `values.yaml`
```sh
make deploy-gslb-operator VALUES_YAML=~/k8gb/eu-cluster.yaml
```

* It should deploy k8gb pretty quickly. Let's check the pod status
```sh

>  k -n k8gb get pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 kubectl -n k8gb get pod
```

NAME                                                       READY   STATUS     RESTARTS   AGE
etcd-cluster-gnt7rslvvj                                    1/1     Running    0          20s
etcd-cluster-n8b2rvhv5q                                    0/1     Init:0/1   0          3s
external-dns-79d5ccd7fc-4bj74                              1/1     Running    0          39s
k8gb-76cc56b55-t779s                                       1/1     Running    0          39s
k8gb-coredns-799984c646-qz88m                              1/1     Running    0          41s
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-backup-operator-fccb8fdd-bx8v5     1/1     Running    0          40s
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-operator-765f655575-pgvbh          1/1     Running    0          40s
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-restore-operator-8977cd5c8-k8l7l   1/1     Running    0          40s
```

* As you can see one of the `etcd-cluster` pods is still in `Init` state. The embedded `etcd-operator` is automatically configuring isolated `etcd` cluster to act as a backend for `coredns` which is used as part of k8gb for coordinated DNS responses. Expected post installation result:
```sh

> k -n k8gb get pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n k8gb get pod
```

NAME                                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
etcd-cluster-gnt7rslvvj                                    1/1     Running   0          7m39s
etcd-cluster-n8b2rvhv5q                                    1/1     Running   0          7m22s
etcd-cluster-xmkz8xsk7g                                    1/1     Running   0          6m41s
external-dns-79d5ccd7fc-4bj74                              1/1     Running   0          7m58s
k8gb-76cc56b55-t779s                                       1/1     Running   0          7m58s
k8gb-coredns-799984c646-qz88m                              1/1     Running   0          8m
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-backup-operator-fccb8fdd-bx8v5     1/1     Running   0          7m59s
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-operator-765f655575-pgvbh          1/1     Running   0          7m59s
k8gb-etcd-operator-etcd-restore-operator-8977cd5c8-k8l7l   1/1     Running   0          7m59s
```

> * Deploy k8gb to second cluster by repeating the same steps with exception of
>   * Obviously switch context to 2nd cluster with e.g. `export KUBECONFIG=us-cluster`
>   * Create another custom `values.yaml` with `cp ~/k8gb/eu-cluster.yaml ~/k8gb/us-cluster.yaml`
>   * At this stage the only thing you need to make is a geo tag swap to enable cross cluster communication
>     * `clusterGeoTag` becomes `us`
>     * And `extGslbClustersGeoTags` becomes `eu`
>   * Run the installation pointing to new values file `make deploy-gslb-operator VALUES_YAML=~/k8gb/us-cluster.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy k8gb to the second cluster by repeating the same steps with the exception of:
  * Switch context to 2nd cluster with `export KUBECONFIG=us-cluster`
  * Create another custom `values.yaml` with `cp ~/k8gb/eu-cluster.yaml ~/k8gb/us-cluster.yaml`
  * Create another geo tag to enable cross cluster communication:
    * `clusterGeoTag` becomes `us`
    * `extGslbClustersGeoTags` becomes `eu`
  * Run the installation pointing to new values file `make deploy-gslb-operator VALUES_YAML=~/k8gb/us-cluster.yaml`
```

> * When your 2nd cluster is visibly ready with `k -n k8gb get pod` check we can proceed with the sample application installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When your 2nd cluster is ready by checking with `kubectl -n k8gb get pod`, we can proceed with the sample application installation
```

* We will use well known testing community app of [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo)
```sh
helm repo add podinfo https://stefanprodan.github.io/podinfo

> k create test-gslb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create test-gslb
```

helm upgrade --install podinfo --namespace test-gslb --set ui.message="us" podinfo/podinfo
```

> As you can see above we did set special geo tag message in podinfo configuratio matching cluster geo tag. It is just for demonstation purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see above we did set special geo tag message in podinfo configuration matching cluster geo tag. It is just for demonstration purposes.
```

* Check that podinfo is running
```sh

> k -n test-gslb get pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb get pod
```

NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
podinfo-5cfcdc9c45-jbg96   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
```

* Let's create Gslb CRD to enable global load balancing for this application. Notice the podinfo Service name
```sh

> k -n test-gslb get svc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb get svc
```

NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
podinfo         ClusterIP   10.96.250.84    <none>        9898/TCP,9999/TCP   9m39s
```

> * Create yaml `~/k8gb/podinfogslb.yaml` descring Gslb as in a sample below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a custom resource `~/k8gb/podinfogslb.yaml` describing `Gslb` as per the sample below:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: k8gb.absa.oss/v1beta1
kind: Gslb
metadata:
  name: podinfo
  namespace: test-gslb
spec:
  ingress:
    rules:
      - host: podinfo.cloud.example.com
        http:
          paths:
          - backend:
              serviceName: podinfo # This should point to Service name of testing application
              servicePort: http
            path: /
  strategy:
    type: roundRobin # Use a round robin load balancing strategy, when deciding which downstream clusters to route clients too
```

* And apply the resource in the target app namespace
```sh

> k -n test-gslb apply -f podinfogslb.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb apply -f podinfogslb.yaml
```

gslb.k8gb.absa.oss/podinfo created
```

* Check Gslb resource
```sh

> k -n test-gslb get gslb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb get gslb
```

NAME      AGE
podinfo   39s
```

* Check Gslb resource status
```sh

> k -n test-gslb describe gslb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb describe gslb
```

Name:         podinfo
Namespace:    test-gslb
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  API Version:  k8gb.absa.oss/v1beta1
Kind:         Gslb
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2020-06-24T22:51:09Z
  Finalizers:
    finalizer.k8gb.absa.oss
  Generation:        1
  Resource Version:  14197
  Self Link:         /apis/k8gb.absa.oss/v1beta1/namespaces/test-gslb/gslbs/podinfo
  UID:               86d4121b-b870-434e-bd4d-fece681116f0
Spec:
  Ingress:
    Rules:
      Host:  podinfo.cloud.example.com
      Http:
        Paths:
          Backend:
            Service Name:  podinfo
            Service Port:  http
          Path:            /
  Strategy:
    Type:  roundRobin
Status:
  Geo Tag:  us
  Healthy Records:
    podinfo.cloud.example.com:
      172.17.0.10
      172.17.0.7
      172.17.0.8
  Service Health:
    podinfo.cloud.example.com:  Healthy
Events:                         <none>
```

* In the output above you should see that Gslb detected the `Healthy` status of underlying `podinfo` standard Kubernetes Service

> * Check that internal k8gb dns servers are responding accordingly on this cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check that internal k8gb DNS servers are responding accordingly on this cluster
```

  * Pick one of the worker nodes to test with
    ```sh
    k get nodes -o wide
    NAME                       STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION   INTERNAL-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   OS-IMAGE       KERNEL-VERSION     CONTAINER-RUNTIME
    test-gslb2-control-plane   Ready    master   53m   v1.17.0   172.17.0.9    <none>        Ubuntu 19.10   4.19.76-linuxkit   containerd://1.3.2
    test-gslb2-worker          Ready    <none>   52m   v1.17.0   172.17.0.8    <none>        Ubuntu 19.10   4.19.76-linuxkit   containerd://1.3.2
    test-gslb2-worker2         Ready    <none>   52m   v1.17.0   172.17.0.7    <none>        Ubuntu 19.10   4.19.76-linuxkit   containerd://1.3.2
    test-gslb2-worker3         Ready    <none>   52m   v1.17.0   172.17.0.10   <none>        Ubuntu 19.10   4.19.76-linuxkit   containerd://1.3.2
    ```

>   * Use `dig` to make a dns query to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Use `dig` to make a DNS query to it
```

    ```sh
    dig +short @172.17.0.10 podinfo.cloud.example.com
    172.17.0.8
    172.17.0.10
    172.17.0.7
    ```

>   * One of your workers should already return DNS responses constructed by Gslb basing on service healthines information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * One of your workers should already return DNS responses constructed by Gslb based on service health information
```

  * If edgeDNS was configured you can query your standard infra DNS directly and it should return the same
    ```sh
    dig +short podinfo.cloud.example.com
    172.17.0.8
    172.17.0.10
    172.17.0.7
    ```

> * Now it's time to deploy this application to the first `eu` cluster. The steps and configuration are exactly the same. Just changing ui message to `eu`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now it's time to deploy this application to the first `eu` cluster. The steps and configuration are exactly the same. Just changing `ui.message` to `eu`
```

```sh

> k create test-gslb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create test-gslb
```

helm upgrade --install podinfo --namespace test-gslb --set ui.message="eu" podinfo/podinfo
```

* Apply exactly the same Gslb definition
```sh

> k -n test-gslb apply -f podinfogslb.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n test-gslb apply -f podinfogslb.yaml
```

Kind:         Gslb
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2020-06-24T23:25:08Z
  Finalizers:
    finalizer.k8gb.absa.oss
  Generation:        1
  Resource Version:  23881
  Self Link:         /apis/k8gb.absa.oss/v1beta1/namespaces/test-gslb/gslbs/podinfo
  UID:               a5ab509b-5ea2-49d6-982e-4129a8410c3e
Spec:
  Ingress:
    Rules:
      Host:  podinfo.cloud.example.com
      Http:
        Paths:
          Backend:
            Service Name:  podinfo
            Service Port:  http
          Path:            /
  Strategy:
    Type:  roundRobin
Status:
  Geo Tag:  eu
  Healthy Records:
    podinfo.cloud.example.com:
      172.17.0.3
      172.17.0.5
      172.17.0.6
      172.17.0.8
      172.17.0.10
      172.17.0.7
  Service Health:
    podinfo.cloud.example.com:  Healthy
Events:                         <none>
```

* Ideally you should already see that `Healthy Records` of `podinfo.cloud.example.com` return the records from __both__ of the clusters. Otherwise, give it couple of minutes to sync up

* Now you can check the DNS repsonses the same way as before.
```sh
dig +short podinfo.cloud.example.com
172.17.0.8
172.17.0.5
172.17.0.10
172.17.0.7
172.17.0.6
172.17.0.3
```

> * And for final end-to-end test we can actually http query the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* And for the final end-to-end test, we can use `curl` to query the application
```

```sh
curl -s podinfo.example.com|grep message
  "message": "\"eu\"",

curl -s podinfo.example.com|grep message
  "message": "\"us\"",

curl -s podinfo.example.com|grep message
  "message": "\"us\"",

curl -s podinfo.example.com||grep message
  "message": "\"eu\"",
```

> * As you can see specially marked `podinfo` returns differnet geo tags showing us the Global Round Robin strategy is working as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As you can see specially marked `podinfo` returns different geo tags showing us the Global Round Robin strategy is working as expected
```

Hope you enjoyed the ride!

> If anything unclear or is going wrong feel free to contact us at https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/issues. We will appreciate any feedback/bugreport and especially Pull Request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If anything unclear or is going wrong feel free to contact us at https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/issues. We will appreciate any feedback/bug report and Pull Requests are welcome.
```

> For more advanced technical stuff and fully automated abstracted local install see below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more advanced technical documentation and fully automated local installation steps, see below.
```
